# User Guide

## Introduction

Money Tracker is a CLI application that allows users to keep track of their income and expenses.
Users can record their inflows and outflows of money and then view monthly reports of these movements of money.

## Quick Start

1. Ensure you have Java `11` or above installed in your Computer.
2. Download the latest `MoneyTracker.jar` [here](https://github.com/AY2021S1-TIC4001-2/tp/releases).
3. Copy `MoneyTracker.jar` to the folder you want to use as the home folder for Money Tracker.
4. Navigate to the home folder for Duke on your CLI program.
5. Launch Money Tracker by running the command `java -jar MoneyTracker.jar`.
6. Type the command in the CLI program and press `Enter` to execute it.
<br>Some example commands you can try:
    - `addcate lunch`: Adds an expense category.
    - `listcat /te`: Lists all expense categories.
    - `adde /a3.50 /cFood /d2020-09-20 /eLunch with boss.`: Adds an expense.
    - `list /te /m2020-09 /cFood`: Lists all Food expenses in Sep 2020.
    - `report 2020-09`: Displays summary report for Sep 2020.
7. Refer to **Features** below for details of each command.

## Features 

Notes about the command format:
- Words in UPPER_CASE are the parameters to be supplied by the user.<br />
E.g. `DESCRIPTION` in the command `addi /aAMOUNT /cINCOME_CATEGORY [/dDATE] [/eDESCRIPTION]`.
- Parameters in square brackets are optional.<br />
E.g. `TYPE` in the command `listcat [/tTYPE]` can be omitted.
- Parameters can be in any order.<br />
E.g. The command `list [/tTYPE] [/mMONTH] [/cCATEGORY]` can also be in this form: `list [/mMONTH] [/tTYPE] [/cCATEGORY]`.

### Viewing help: `help`
Shows the URL of the user manual.

Format: `help`

Example of usage: `help`

Expected outcome:
```
Please refer to this online user guide:
https://ay2021s1-tic4001-2.github.io/tp/UserGuide.html
```

### Adding an income category: `addcati`
Adds an income category. Income category is used for classifying incomes. E.g. SALARY, DIVIDEND, INTEREST.

Format: `addcati INCOME_CATEGORY`
- `INCOME_CATEGORY` is case-insensitive; income categories will be stored and
  displayed in uppercase. E.g. `salary` will be stored and displayed as `SALARY`.

Example of usage: `addcati salary`

Expected outcome:
```
Got it! I have added this income category:
  [I] SALARY
  Now you have 1 categories in your list.
```

### Adding an expense category: `addcate`
Adds an expense category. Expense category is used for classifying expense. E.g. FOOD, RENT, ENTERTAINMENT.

Format: `addcate EXPENSE_CATEGORY`
- `EXPENSE_CATEGORY` is case-insensitive; expense categories will be stored and
displayed in uppercase. E.g. `Food` will be stored and displayed as `FOOD`.

Example of usage: `addcate Food`

Expected outcome:
```
Got it! I have added this expense category:
  [E] FOOD
  Now you have 2 categories in your list.
```

### Listing all income / expense categories: `listcat`
Shows a list of all income and/or expense categories.

Format: `listcat [/tTYPE]`

- `TYPE` must either be the letter `i` or `e`. If `TYPE` is `i`, only income categories will be
listed. Similarly, if `TYPE` is `e`, only expense categories will be listed. If `TYPE` is
omitted, both income and expense categories will be listed.

Example of usage: `listcat /te`

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your expense categories:
  1. [E] FOOD
  2. [E] RENT
  3. [E] ENTERTAINMENT
```
Example of usage: `listcat`

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your categories:
  1. [I] SALARY
  2. [I] DIVIDEND
  3. [E] FOOD
  4. [E] RENT
  5. [E] ENTERTAINMENT
```
### Editing an income / expense category: `editcat`
Edits a specified income or expense category.

Format: `editcat INDEX /nNEW_NAME`

- The `listcat` command must be executed first before using the `editcat` command.
- `INDEX` refers to the index number shown in the list generated by the `listcat` command.
- `INDEX` must a positive integer. E.g. `1`, `2`, `3`…
- The category indicated by the index number will be changed to `NEW_NAME`.

Example of usage: `editcat 1 /nSalary`

Expected outcome:
```
Noted! I have edited this income category: 
   From [I] SALARIES to [I] SALARY
```

### Deleting an income / expense category: `deletecat`
Deletes a specified income or expense category.

Format: `deletecat INDEX`

- The `listcat` command must be executed first before using the `deletecat` command.
- `INDEX` refers to the index number shown in the list generated by the `listcat` command.
- `INDEX` must a positive integer. E.g. `1`, `2`, `3`…
- The category indicated by the index number will be deleted.

Example of usage: `deletecat 5`

Expected outcome:
```
Noted! I have removed this expense category:
  [E] ENTERTAINMENT
  Now you have 4 categories in your list.
```

### Adding an income: `addi`
Adds an income.

Format: `addi /aAMOUNT /cINCOME_CATEGORY [/dDATE] [/eDESCRIPTION]`
- `AMOUNT` must be a positive integer or decimal. E.g. `4000`, `3000.75`, `2000.5`.
- `INCOME_CATEGORY` is case-insensitive. E.g. `salary` will match `SALARY`.
- `DATE` must be in yyyy-MM-dd format. E.g. `2020-09-20`.
-  If `DATE` is omitted, the date of this income will be set to the current date of the system.
- If `DESCRIPTION` is omitted, the description of this income will be blank.

Example of usage: `addi /a9000 /cSalary /d2020-09-01 /eGiven $4000 bonus!`

Expected outcome:
```
Got it! I’ve added this income:
    [I] SALARY $9000.00 on 01 Sep 2020 (Given $4000 bonus!)
    Now you have 1 transactions in your list.
```

### Adding an expense: `adde`
Adds an expense.

Format: `adde /aAMOUNT /cEXPENSE_CATEGORY [/dDATE] [/eDESCRIPTION]`
- `AMOUNT` must be a positive integer or decimal. E.g. `400`, `3.50`, `4.5`.
- `EXPENSE_CATEGORY` is case-insensitive. E.g. `Food` will match `FOOD`.
- `DATE` must be in yyyy-MM-dd format. E.g. `2020-09-20`.
-  If `DATE` is omitted, the date of this expense will be set to the current date of the system.
- If `DESCRIPTION` is omitted, the description of this expense will be blank.

Example of usage: `adde /a3.50 /cFood /d2020-09-20 /eLunch with boss.`

Expected outcome:
```
Got it! I’ve added this expense:
    [E] FOOD $3.50 on 20 Sep 2020 (Lunch with boss.)
    Now you have 2 transactions in your list.
```

### Listing incomes / expenses: `list`
Shows a list of incomes / expenses.

Format:  `list [/tTYPE] [/mMONTH] [/cCATEGORY]` <br>

- `TYPE` must either be the letter `i` or `e`. If `TYPE` is `i`, only incomes will be listed.
Similarly, if `TYPE` is `e`, only expenses will be listed. If `TYPE` is omitted, both
incomes and expenses will be listed. 
- `MONTH` must be in `yyyy-MM` format. E.g. `2020-09`. Only transactions in this month
will be listed. If `MONTH` is omitted, all transactions will be listed.
- `CATEGORY` must be added behind `/c`. `CATEGORY` can be case-insensitive. Only matched transactions in this category will be listed. 
- Other feasible list commands. Also, the order of filter condition is flexible: <br>
  * `list` 
  * `list [/tTYPE]` , or `list [/mMONTH]` , or `list [/cCATEGORY]` 
  * `list [/tTYPE] [/mMONTH]` , or `list [/mMONTH] [/tTYPE]`,or `list [/mMONTH] [/cCATEGORY]`,or `list [/cCATEGORY] [/mMONTH]`,or `list [/tTYPE] [/cCATEGORY]`,or `list [/cCATEGORY] [/tTYPE] ` 
  * `list [/tTYPE] [/mMONTH] [/cCATEGORY]`, or `list [/mMONTH] [/cCATEGORY] [/tTYPE]`, or `list [/cCATEGORY] [/mMONTH] [/tTYPE]`

Example of usage: `list /te /m2020-09` 

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your expense records for 2020-09:
  1. [E] RENT $500 on 01 Sep 2020
  2. [E] FOOD $10.00 on 18 Sep 2020 (Dinner at McDonalds’)
  3. [E] FOOD $3.50 on 20 Sep 2020 (Lunch with boss.)
```

Example of usage: `list`

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your transactions:
  1. [I] SALARY $5000.00 on 01 Aug 2020
  2. [E] RENT $500 on 01 Aug 2020
  3. [I] SALARY $9000.00 on 01 Sep 2020 (Given $4000 bonus!)
  4. [E] RENT $500 on 01 Sep 2020
  5. [E] FOOD $10.00 on 18 Sep 2020 (Dinner at McDonalds’)
  6. [E] FOOD $3.50 on 20 Sep 2020 (Lunch with boss.)
```

Example of usage: `list /te`  

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your transactions:
  1. [E] RENT $500 on 01 Aug 2020
  2. [E] RENT $500 on 01 Sep 2020
  3. [E] FOOD $10.00 on 18 Sep 2020 (Dinner at McDonalds’)
  4. [E] FOOD $3.50 on 20 Sep 2020 (Lunch with boss.)
```
Example of usage: `list /m2020-09`  

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your transactions:
  1. [I] SALARY $9000.00 on 01 Sep 2020 (Given $4000 bonus!)
  2. [E] RENT $500 on 01 Sep 2020
  3. [E] FOOD $10.00 on 18 Sep 2020 (Dinner at McDonalds’)
  4. [E] FOOD $3.50 on 20 Sep 2020 (Lunch with boss.)
```
Example of usage: `list /cSALARY`  

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your transactions:
  1. [I] SALARY $5000.00 on 01 Aug 2020
  2. [I] SALARY $9000.00 on 01 Sep 2020 (Given $4000 bonus!)
```
Example of usage: `list /te /m2020-09 /cFOOD` 

Expected outcome:
```
Here are your expense records for 2020-09:
  1. [E] FOOD $10.00 on 18 Sep 2020 (Dinner at McDonalds’)
  2. [E] FOOD $3.50 on 20 Sep 2020 (Lunch with boss.)
```

### Editing an income / expense: `edit`
Edits a specified income or expense.

Format: `edit INDEX [/aAMOUNT] [/cCATEGORY] [/dDATE] [/eDESCRIPTION]`
- The `list` command must be executed first before using the `edit` command.
- `INDEX` refers to the index number shown in the list generated by the `list` command.
- `INDEX` must a positive integer. E.g. `1`, `2`, `3`.
- The transaction indicated by the index number will be edited.
- `AMOUNT` must be a positive integer or decimal. E.g. `400`, `3.50`, `4.5`.
- `CATEGORY` is case-insensitive. E.g. `Food` will match `FOOD`.
- `CATEGORY` must match an existing income / expense category.
- `DATE` must be in yyyy-MM-dd format. E.g. `2020-09-20`.

Example of usage: `edit 1 /a500 /cDIVIDEND /d2020-10-21 /eFrom Singtel`

Expected outcome:
```
Noted! I have edited this income: 
   From [I] SALARY $4000.00 on 20 Oct 2020 to [I] DIVIDEND $500.00 on 21 Oct 2020 (From Singtel)
```

### Deleting an income / expense: `delete`
Deletes a specified income or expense.

Format: `delete INDEX`
- The `list` command must be executed first before using the `delete` command.
- `INDEX` refers to the index number shown in the list generated by the `list` command.
- `INDEX` must a positive integer. E.g. `1`, `2`, `3`.
- The transaction indicated by the index number will be deleted.

Example of usage: `delete 5`

Expected outcome:
```
Noted! I have removed this expense:
    [E] FOOD $10.00 on 18 Sep 2020 (Dinner at McDonalds’)
```

### Clearing all data: `clear`
Clears all incomes / expenses and income / expense categories.

Format: `clear`
- The app will prompt for a confirmation. Enter `Y` to confirm the data clear or `N` to cancel the clear command.

Example of usage: `clear`

Expected outcome:
```
Noted! I have cleared all data.
```

### Setting monthly budget: `budget`
Sets monthly budget.

Format: `budget AMOUNT`
- `AMOUNT` must be `0` or a positive integer or decimal. E.g. `4000`, `3500.5`, `3000.50`.
- During startup, the app will alert the user when the total expenses for the month exceed 
50%, 75% and 100% of the budget.
- if `AMOUNT` is `0`, the budget alert will be disabled.

Example of usage: `budget 5000`

Expected outcome:
```
Got it! I have set your monthly budget to this amount:
   $5000.00
```

### Viewing monthly report: `report`
Shows a report that summarises the incomes and expenses for a specified month.

Format: `report`
- The summary report for the last six months will be displayed.

Example of usage: `report`

Expected outcome:
```
Here is your report:
Income for last 6 months (Highest to lowest):
  [I] 2020-09 $27597.40
  [I] 2020-06 $4344.00
  [I] 2020-05 $5666.00
  [I] 2020-10 $4000.00
  [I] 2020-08 $6000.00
  [I] 2020-07 $8880.00

Income for last 6 months (Highest to lowest):
  [E] 2020-09 $531.00
  [E] 2020-06 $650.00
  [E] 2020-05 $660.00
  [E] 2020-10 $577.00
  [E] 2020-08 $570.00
  [E] 2020-07 $550.00
```

Format: `report MONTH`
- `MONTH` must be in yyyy-MM format. E.g. `2020-09`.
- The summary report for the specified month will be displayed.

Example of usage: `report 2020-09`

Expected outcome:
```
Here is your transactions for 2020-09 :
Total Income: $27597.40
Total Expense: $31.00
Balance: $27566.40

This month has 30 days.
Average Expense Per Day: $1.03

Highest Income transaction: 
  [I] SALARY $9000.00 on 1 Sep 2020 (Given $4000 bonus!)

Highest Expense transaction: 
  [E] DRINK $9.50 on 20 Sep 2020 (Lunch with boss.)

Income Category by Frequency:
  [I] HONGBAO: 5
  [I] SALARY: 3

Expense Category by Frequency:
  [E] DRINK: 4
  [E] FOOD: 2

Income Category by Amount:
  [I] SALARY $27000.00
  [I] HONGBAO $597.40

Expense Category by Amount:
  [E] DRINK $24.00
  [E] FOOD $7.00
____________________________________________________________________ 
```
### Exiting the program: `exit`
Exits the program. 

Format: `exit`

Example of usage: `exit`

Expected outcome:

```
Bye! Hope to see you again soon.
```

### Saving the data
There is no save command because any change 
to the data will be automatically saved.


## FAQ

**Q**:
How do I transfer my data to another computer? 

**A**: 
Go to Money Tracker's root folder in the current computer.
Copy the data folder and paste it into the Money Tracker's root folder in the new computer.
Click `Yes` if the system prompts you for confirmation of overwriting.
## Command Summary

* View help `help`
* Add income category `addcati INCOME_CATEGORY`
* Add expense category `addcate EXPENSE_CATEGORY`
* List income / expense categories `listcat [/tTYPE]`
* Edit income / expense category `editcat INDEX /nNEW_NAME`
* Delete income / expense category `deletecat INDEX`
* Add income `addi /aAMOUNT /cINCOME_CATEGORY [/dDATE] [/eDESCRIPTION]`
* Add expense `adde /aAMOUNT /cEXPENSE_CATEGORY [/dDATE] [/eDESCRIPTION]`
* List incomes / expenses `list [/tTYPE] [/mMONTH] [/cCATEGORY]`
* Edit income / expense `edit INDEX [/aAMOUNT] [/cCATEGORY] [/dDATE] [/eDESCRIPTION]`
* Delete income / expense `delete INDEX`
* Clear data `clear`
* Set monthly budget `budget AMOUNT`
* View monthly report `report MONTH`
* Exit program `exit`